
                                 == NOTICE ==

PREVIOUS USERS OF PRECIOUS will find update news on the noticeboard in the inn.


                      === PRECIOUS - An Overview ===


You are about to enter a strange and wonderful world, the world of
PRECIOUS.  You won't be alone!  PRECIOUS is a REAL-TIME, MULTI-USER
Adventure/Role-Playing game.  The world you are entering will be inhabited
by not only yourself, but other people; other comms users, who you will
be able to meet with, talk to and work with or against.  You have to be
careful just how you treat other people, else the climb to Mastership may
be a long battle...

Two games of PRECIOUS are never quite the same.  You never know who has been
in The Land before you, or how they affected it.  Because of this, there
is no fixed "goal" other than to achieve the ultimate rating of "Master",
instead the game is made up of literally hundreds of ways of scoring points,
and several "Tasks" which demonstrate an degree of experience and knowledge
of The Land.

In order to increase your rank in the game, you have to score points.  There
are thousands of ways of scoring points, most of them relate to accomplishing
something, or even just doing something the right way.  By typing "HINTS"
or "SCORING" from within the game, you can get a list of helpful tips.

The first few games of PRECIOUS can be somewhat confusing!  There is a lot
going down, and a lot to understand, so start by getting a feel for The Land.


                            == Travelling Around ==

Each time you play, you being in the Welcome Hall.  From here you can choose
one of two routes; North takes you the "Beginners route", which always
starts you off from the same place, whilst South will randomly teleport
you to some place in the game, just to add some variety.

Two commands, "EXITS" and "AUTOEXITS" make exploring The Land easier;
both of them list all the possible exits from a room.  However, AUTOEXITS
will cause this list to be displayed every time you move from room to room.
This makes mapping PRECIOUS much easier.

To move around you can either say "GO <direction>" or just "<direction>".
The directions are: North, South, East, West, NorthEast, SouthEast, SouthWest,
UP, Down, IN, Out.  (The capital letters indicate possible abbreviations,
i.e.: NorthEast or ne).

If you are lucky enough to find a more experienced player who is willing
to show you around, you can even FOLLOW other players.

PLEASE NOTE: When you encounter doors or doorways, the room descriptions will
usually tell you that they are "To the north" or "To the east".  Don't try and
"ENTER DOOR" or "GO DOOR", instead, simply go in the direction of the doorway.


                       == Communicating with the game ==

The Parser in PRECIOUS is quite clever.  It allows you to type as brief or
detailed as you like, but it is a NEW system; being developed hand in hand
with a new games system called AMUL, so there may be some 'peculiarities'
which PRECIOUS misunderstands.  Listed below are a few possible lines
of input which PRECIOUS will understand (':' is the prompt given to
inexperienced players).

	: give the book to john
	: gi book john			Means: give the book to John.
	: g book,gi it john		Means: get book, give it to john
	: dr book,hat,coin		Means: drop book, hat and coin
	: dr teddy,g diamd,val it,n	Means: drop teddy, get diamond,
					       value diamond, go north
	: int john bill			Means: introduce John to Bill
	: hug john,bill			Means: hug john, hug bill
	: "Hello!"			Means: say "Hello!"
	: sh "Who's out there?"		Means: shout "Who's out there?"
	: smile,act "hicuffles."	Means: smile then tell everyone in
					       my room "Fred hicuffles."
	: g axe,hi John,gi it him	Means: Get axe, greet John 'Hi'
					       and give the axe to John.

As you can see, the parser is quite clever, but it DOES still have it's
failings - otherwise we'd have finished developing it, n'est pas?


                              == Final Advice ==

PRECIOUS can seem quite overwhelming, and indeed, if you try to take too much
on too soon, it can be.  Try to take things a step at a time, and get to
grips with things as you go along; you never will learn all the secrets of
the game, even when you have the ultimate powers that Master hood commands!
So why try and learn them all right at the start!

Try to tell PRECIOUS to do what YOU want it to do in YOUR terms.  If it
doesn't understand, then you can report it as a bug!  (Use the "BUG" command).

Once in the game, there are several on-line help texts accessible via the
following commands:

   HELP, HINTS, COMMANDS, SPELLS, LEVELS, SCORING, ACTING, COMMUNICATING

